
[]{#_bookmark169 .anchor}**Part II**

**第2部分**

**A Practical Guide to GPL Compliance**

**GPL 合规实用指南**

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

概要

This is a guide to effective compliance with the GNU General Public
License (GPL) and related licenses. Copyleft advocates usually seek to
assist the community with GPL compliance cooperatively. This guide
focuses on complying from the start, so that readers can learn to
avoid enforcement actions entirely, or, at least, minimize the
negative impact when enforcement actions occur. This guide introduces
and explains basic legal concepts related to the GPL and its
enforcement by copyright holders. It also outlines business practices
and methods that lead to better GPL compliance. Finally, it recommends
proper post-violation responses to the concerns of copyright holders.

这是有效遵守 GNU 通用公共许可证 (GPL) 和相关许可证的指南。著作权拥护者通常寻求合作协助社区遵守 GPL。 本指南着重于从一开始就遵守，以便读者可以学会完全避免强制执行，或者至少在强制执行发生时将负面影响降至最低。 本指南介绍并解释了与 GPL 相关的基本法律概念及其版权所有者的执行情况。 它还概述了导致更好的 GPL 合规性的业务实践和方法。 最后，它建议对版权所有者的担忧进行适当的侵权后回应。

[]{#_bookmark170 .anchor}**CHAPTER 13**

**第13章**

BACKGROUND

背景

Copyright law grants exclusive rights to authors. Authors who chose
copyleft seek to protect the freedom of users and developers to copy,
share, modify and redistribute the software. However, copyleft is
ultimately implemented through copyright, and the GPL is primarily and
by default a copyright license. (See
[1.2](#how-does-software-become-free) for more about the interaction
between copyright and copyleft.) Copyright law grants an unnatural
exclusive control to copyright holders regarding copyright-controlled
permissions related to the work. Therefore, copyright holders (or
their agents) are the ultimately the sole authorities to enforce
copyleft and protect the rights of users. Actions for copyright
infringement are the ultimate legal mechanism for enforcement.
Therefore, copyright holders, or collaborative groups of copyright
holders, have historically been the actors in GPL enforcement.

版权法授予作者专有权。 选择著作权的作者寻求保护用户和开发人员复制、共享、修改和重新分发软件的自由。 然而，copyleft 最终是通过版权来实现的，GPL 主要是默认的版权许可。 （参见[1.2]（#how-does-software-become-free）了解更多关于版权和著作权之间相互作用的信息。）版权法授予版权持有者关于与作品相关的版权控制权限的非自然排他性控制权。 因此，版权持有者（或其代理人）最终是执行著作权和保护用户权利的唯一权威。 版权侵权行为是执法的最终法律机制。因此，版权持有者或版权持有者的合作团体历来都是 GPL 执法的参与者。

The earliest of these efforts began soon after the GPL was written by
Richard M. Stallman (RMS) in 1989, and consisted of informal community
efforts, often in public Usenet discussions.[^1^](#_bookmark171) Over
the next decade, the Free Software Foundation (FSF), which holds
copyrights in many GNU programs, was the only visible entity actively
enforcing its GPL'd copyrights on behalf of the software freedom
community. FSF's enforcement was generally a private process; the FSF
contacted violators confidentially and helped them to comply with the
license. Most violations were pursued this way until the early 2000's.

最早的这些努力是在 Richard M. Stallman (RMS) 于 1989 年编写 GPL 后不久开始的，由非正式的社区努力组成，通常出现在公开的 Usenet 讨论中。[^1^](#_bookmark171) 在接下来的十年里，自由软件 Foundation (FSF) 拥有许多 GNU 程序的版权，是唯一代表软件自由社区积极执行其 GPL 版权的可见实体。 FSF 的执法通常是一个私人过程； FSF 秘密联系违规者并帮助他们遵守许可证。 直到 2000 年代初期，大多数违规行为都是以这种方式追究的。

By that time, Linux-based systems such as GNU/Linux and BusyBox/Linux
had become very common, particularly in embedded devices such as
wireless routers. During this period, public ridicule of violators in
the press and on Internet fora supplemented ongoing private
enforcement and increased pressure on businesses to comply. In 2003,
the FSF formalized its efforts into the GPL Compliance Lab, increased
the volume of enforcement, and built community coalitions to encourage
copyright holders to together settle amicably with violators.
Beginning in 2004, Harald Welte took a more organized public
enforcement approach and launched
[gpl-violations.org,](http://gpl-violations.org/) a website and
mailing list for collecting reports of GPL violations. On the basis of
these reports, Welte successfully pursued many enforcement actions in
Europe, including formal legal action. Harald earns the permanent fame
as the first copyright holder to bring legal action in a court
regarding GPL compliance.

那时，基于 Linux 的系统，如 GNU/Linux 和 BusyBox/Linux 已经非常普遍，特别是在无线路由器等嵌入式设备中。 在此期间，媒体和互联网上对违规者的公开嘲笑补充了正在进行的私人执法，并增加了企业遵守的压力。 2003 年，FSF 将其努力正式纳入 GPL 合规实验室，增加了执法力度，并建立了社区联盟，以鼓励版权持有者与违规者和解。从 2004 年开始，Harald Welte 采取了更有组织的公共执法方式，并推出了[gpl- violations.org,](http://gpl-violations.org/) 一个用于收集 GPL 违规报告的网站和邮件列表。 基于这些报告，Welte 在欧洲成功地采取了许多执法行动，包括正式的法律行动。 作为第一个就 GPL 合规性向法院提起法律诉讼的版权持有者，Harald 赢得了永久的声誉。

In 2007, two copyright holders in BusyBox, in conjunction with the
Software Freedom Conservancy ("Conservancy"), filed the first
copyright infringement lawsuit based on a violation of the GPL in the
USA. While lawsuits are of course quite public, the vast majority of
Conservancy's enforcement actions are resolved privately via
cooperative communications with violators. As both FSF and Conservancy
have worked to bring individual companies into compliance, both
organizations have encountered numerous violations resulting from
preventable problems such as inadequate attention to licensing of
upstream software, misconceptions about the GPL's terms, and poor
communication between software developers and their management. This
document highlights these problems and describe best practices to
encourage corporate Free Software users to reevaluate their approach
to GPL'd software and avoid future violations.

2007 年，BusyBox 的两个版权所有者联合软件自由保护协会（“保护协会”）在美国提起了第一起违反 GPL 的版权侵权诉讼。 虽然诉讼当然是相当公开的，但绝大多数保护协会的执法行动都是通过与违规者的合作沟通私下解决的。 由于 FSF 和 Conservancy 都致力于使个别公司遵守规定，因此这两个组织都遇到了许多由可预防的问题引起的违规行为，例如对上游软件许可的关注不足、对 GPL 条款的误解以及软件开发人员与其管理层之间的沟通不畅。 本文档强调了这些问题并描述了最佳实践，以鼓励企业自由软件用户重新评估他们使用 GPL 软件的方法并避免未来的违规行为。

^1^[]{#_bookmark171 .anchor}One example is the public outcry over
NeXT's attempt to make the Objective-C front-end to GCC proprietary.
RMS, in fact, handled this enforcement action personally and the
Objective-C front-end is still part of upstream GCC today.

一个例子是公众对 NeXT 试图让 Objective-C 前端成为 GCC 私有化的强烈抗议。事实上，RMS 亲自处理了这一强制行动，而 Objective-C 前端今天仍然是上游 GCC 的一部分。

Both FSF and Conservancy continue GPL enforcement and compliance
efforts for software under the GPL, the GNU Lesser Public License
(LGPL) and other copyleft licenses. In doing so, both organizations
have found that most violations stem from a few common, avoidable
mistakes. All copyleft advocates hope to educate the community of
commercial distributors, redistributors, and resellers on how to avoid
violations in the first place, and to respond adequately and
appropriately when a violation occurs.

FSF 和 Conservancy 都在 GPL、GNU Lesser Public License (LGPL) 和其他著佐权许可证下继续为软件执行 GPL 和合规性工作。 在这样做的过程中，两个组织都发现大多数违规行为都源于一些常见的、可以避免的错误。 所有著佐权倡导者都希望教育商业分销商、再分销商和转售商社区如何首先避免违规行为，并在违规行为发生时做出充分和适当的反应。

## Who Has Compliance Obligations?

## 谁有合规义务？

All distributors of modified or unmodified versions of copylefted
works unmodified versions of the works have compliance obligations.
Common methods of modifying the works include innumerable common acts,
such as:

著佐权作品的修改版或未修改版的所有分发者 作品的未修改版都有合规义务。 常见的修改作品的方法包括无数常见的行为，例如：

- embedding those works as executable copies into a device,

- 将这些作品作为可执行副本嵌入到设备中，

- transferring a digital copy of executable copies to someone else,

- 将可执行副本的数字副本转移给其他人，

- posting a patch to the copylefted software to a public mailing list.

- 将著佐权软件的补丁发布到公共邮件列表。

Such distributors have obligations to (at least) the users to whom
they (or intermediary parties) dis- tribute those copies. In some
cases, distributors have obligations to third parties not directly
receiving their distribution of the works (depending on the
distributors chosen licensing options, as described later in
[15.1).](#binary-distribution-permission) In addition, distributors
have compliance obligations to upstream parties, such as preservation
of reasonable legal notices embedded in the code, and appropriate
labeling of modified versions.

此类分发者（至少）对他们（或中间方）向其分发这些副本的用户负有义务。 在某些情况下，发行商对不直接接收其作品发行的第三方负有义务（取决于发行商选择的许可选项，如后文 [15.1] 所述）。](#binary-distribution-permission) 此外，发行商有合规性 对上游各方的义务，例如保留代码中嵌入的合理法律声明，以及修改版本的适当标签。

Online service providers and distributors alike have other compliance
obligations. In general, they must refrain from imposing any
additional restrictions on downstream parties. Most typically, such
compliance problems arise from "umbrella licenses:" EULAs, or
sublicenses that restrict downstream users' rights under copyleft.
(See [7.3](#gplv2-6-gpl-my-one-and-only) and
[9.13).](#gplv3-10-explicit-downstream-license)

在线服务提供商和分销商都有其他合规义务。 一般来说，他们必须避免对下游方施加任何额外的限制。 最典型的是，此类合规性问题源于“伞式许可”：EULA，或限制下游用户在著佐权下的权利的从属许可。 （参见[7.3]（#gplv2-6-gpl-my-one-and-only）和[9.13]。]（#gplv3-10-explicit-downstream-license）

Patent holders having claims reading on GPL'd works they distribute
must refrain from enforcing those claims against parties to whom they
distribute. Furthermore, patent holders holding copyrights on GPLv3'd
works must further grant an explicit patent license for any patent
claims reading on the version they dis- tributed, and therefore cannot
enforce those specific patent claims against anyone making, using or
selling a work based on their distributed version. All parties must
refrain from acting as a provider of services or distributor of
licensed works if they have accepted, or had imposed on them by
judicial action, any legal conditions that would prevent them from
meeting any obligation under GPL. (See *§*
[7.5,](#gplv2-7-give-software-liberty-or-give-it-death) *§*
[9.14](#gplv3-11-explicit-patent-licensing) and *§*
[9.15.](#gplv3-12-familiar-as-gplv2-7)

对他们分发的 GPL 作品有权利要求的专利持有人必须避免对他们分发的各方强制执行这些权利要求。 此外，拥有 GPLv3 作品版权的专利持有人必须进一步授予阅读他们分发的版本的任何专利声明的明确专利许可，因此不能对任何基于 GPLv3 制作、使用或销售作品的人强制执行这些特定的专利声明。 他们的分布式版本。 如果所有各方已经接受或通过司法行动强加给他们任何法律条件，阻止他们履行 GPL 下的任何义务，则他们必须避免充当服务提供者或许可作品的分发者。 （参见 *§* [7.5,](#gplv2-7-give-software-liberty-or-give-it-death) *§* [9.14](#gplv3-11-explicit-patent-licensing) 和 *§* [9.15.](#gplv3-12-familiar-as-gplv2-7)

## What Are The Risks of Non-Compliance?

## 不合规的风险是什么？

Copyleft experts have for decades observed a significant mismatch
between the assumptions most businesses make about copyleft compliance
and the realities. Possibly due to excessive marketing of proprietary
tools and services from the for-profit compliance industry, businesses
perennially focus on the wrong concerns. This tutorial seeks to
educate those businesses about what actually goes wrong, what causes
disputes, and how to resolve those disputes.

几十年来，著佐权专家观察到大多数企业对著佐权合规性所做的假设与现实之间存在严重的不匹配。 可能由于营利性合规行业对专有工具和服务的过度营销，企业一直关注错误的问题。 本教程旨在让这些企业了解实际出了什么问题、引起争议的原因以及如何解决这些争议。

Many businesses currently invest undue resources to avoid unlikely
risks that have low historical incidence of occurrence and low cost of
remediation, while leaving unmanaged the risks that have historically
resulted in all the litigation and other adverse outcomes. For
example, some "compliance industry"[^2^](#_bookmark174) vendors insist
that great effort must be expended to carefully list, in the menus or
manuals of embedded electronics products, copyright notices for every
last copyright holder that contributed to the Free Software included
^2^[]{#_bookmark174 .anchor}"Compliance industry" refers to
third-party for-profit companies that market proprietary software
tools and/or consulting services that purport to aid businesses with
their Free Software license compliance obligations, such as those
found in GPL and other copyleft licenses. This tutorial leaves the
term in quotes throughout, primarily to communicate the skepticism
most of this tutorial's authors feel regarding the mere existence of
this industry. Not only do copyleft advocates object on principle to
proprietary software tools in general, and to their ironic use
specifically to comply with copyleft, but also to the "compliance
industry" vendors' marketing messaging, which some copyleft advocates
claim as a cause in the risk misassessments discussed herein. Bradley
M. Kuhn, specifically, regularly uses the term "compliance industrial
complex" [to analogize the types
of](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military-industrial_complex)
[problems in this industry to those warned against in the phrase of
origin.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military-industrial_complex)

in the product. While nearly all Free Software licenses, including
copylefts like GPL, require preservation and display of copyright
notices, failure to meet this specific requirement is trivially
remedied. Therefore, businesses should spend just reasonable efforts
to properly display copyright notices, and note that failure to do so
is simply remedied: add the missing copyright notice!

许多企业目前投入了不适当的资源来避免历史上发生率低且补救成本低的不太可能发生的风险，同时对历史上导致所有诉讼和其他不利结果的风险置之不理。 例如，一些“合规行业”[^2^](#_bookmark174) 供应商坚持认为，必须付出巨大努力，在嵌入式电子产品的菜单或手册中，仔细列出每一位为 包含免费软件 ^2^[]{#_bookmark174 .anchor}“合规行业”是指第三方营利性公司，其销售旨在帮助企业履行其自由软件许可合规义务的专有软件工具和/或咨询服务， 例如 GPL 和其他著佐权许可证中的那些。 本教程始终将该术语置于引号中，主要是为了传达本教程的大多数作者对这个行业是否存在的怀疑。著佐权拥护者不仅原则上反对一般的专有软件工具，反对它们专门用于遵守著佐权的讽刺性用途，而且还反对“合规行业”供应商的营销信息，一些著佐权拥护者声称这是风险的一个原因 此处讨论的错误评估。 Bradley M. Kuhn，具体来说，经常使用术语“合规工业综合体”[来类比](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military-industrial_complex)[这个行业中的问题与那些在 起源短语。](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military-industrial_complex) 在产品中。 虽然几乎所有的自由软件许可证，包括像 GPL 这样的 copyleft，都需要保存和显示版权声明，但如果不满足这一特定要求，则可以轻松补救。 因此，企业应该花费合理的努力来正确显示版权声明，并注意如果没有这样做，只需补救：添加丢失的版权声明！

## Understanding Who's Enforcing

## 了解谁在执行

The mismatch between actual compliance risk and compliance risk
management typically results from a misunderstanding of licensor
intentions. For-profit businesses often err by assuming other actors
have kindred motivations. The primary enforcers of the GPL, however,
have goals that for-profit businesses will find strange and perhaps
downright alien.

实际合规风险与合规风险管理之间的不匹配通常是由于对许可方意图的误解造成的。 营利性企业经常错误地假设其他参与者有相似的动机。 然而，GPL 的主要执行者的目标会让营利性企业感到奇怪，甚至可能完全陌生。

Specifically, community-oriented GPL enforcement organizations (called
"COGEOs" throughout the re- mainder of this tutorial) are typically
non-profit charities (such as the FSF and Software Freedom Conser-
vancy) who declare, as part of their charitable mission, advancement
of software freedom for all users. In the USA, these COGEOs are all
classified as charitable under the IRS's 501(c)(3) designation, which
is reserved for organizations that have a mission to enhance the
public good.

具体来说，面向社区的 GPL 执行组织（在本教程的其余部分称为“COGEO”）通常是非营利慈善机构（例如 FSF 和软件自由保护协会），作为其慈善使命的一部分，他们声明， 促进所有用户的软件自由。 在美国，根据 IRS 的 501(c)(3) 指定，这些 COGEO 都被归类为慈善机构，这是为那些以提高公共利益为使命的组织保留的。

As such, these COGEOs enforce GPL primarily to pursue the policy goals
and motivations discussed throughout this tutorial: to spread software
freedom further. As such, COGEOs are unified in their primary goal to
bring the violator back into compliance as quickly as possible, and
redress the damage caused by the violation. COGEOs are steadfast in
their position in a violation negotiation: comply with the license and
respect freedom.

因此，这些 COGEO 强制执行 GPL 主要是为了追求本教程中讨论的政策目标和动机：进一步传播软件自由。 因此，COGEO 的主要目标是统一的，即尽快使违规者恢复合规，并纠正违规造成的损害。 COGEO 在违规谈判中坚持自己的立场：遵守许可并尊重自由。

Certainly, other entities do not share the full ethos of software
freedom as institutionalized by COGEOs, and those entities pursue GPL
violations differently. Oracle, a company that produces the GPL'd
MySQL database, upon discovering GPL violations typically negotiates a
proprietary software license separately for a fee. While this practice
is not one a COGEO would undertake nor endorse, a copyleft license
technically permits this behavior. To put a finer point on this
practice already discussed in [12.2,](#business-models) copyleft
advocates usually find copyleft enforcement efforts focused on extract
alternative proprietary licenses distasteful at best, and a corrupt
manipulation of copyleft at worst. Much to the advocates' chagrin,
such for-profit enforcement efforts seem to increase rather than
decrease.

当然，其他实体并不认同 COGEO 制度化的软件自由的全部精神，而且这些实体以不同的方式追究 GPL 违规行为。 Oracle 是一家生产 GPL 的 MySQL 数据库的公司，在发现违反 GPL 的行为后，通常会单独收费协商专有软件许可。 虽然这种做法不是 COGEO 会承担或认可的，但著佐权许可证在技术上允许这种行为。 为了更好地说明这种已经在 [12.2,](#business-models) 中讨论过的做法，著佐权倡导者通常发现著佐权执法工作集中在提取替代专有许可上，最好的情况下是令人反感的，最坏的情况下是对著佐权的腐败操纵。 令倡导者懊恼的是，这种以营利为目的的执法努力似乎在增加而不是减少。

Thus, unsurprisingly, for-profit adopters of GPL'd software often
incorrectly assume that all copyright holders seek royalties.
Businesses therefore focus on the risk of so-called "accidental"
(typically as the result of unsupervised activity by individual
programmers) infringe copyright by incorporating "snippets" of
copylefted code into their own proprietary computer program.
"Compliance industry" flagship products, therefore, focus on "code
scanning" services that purport to detect accidental inclusions. Such
effort focuses on proprietary software development and view Free
Software as a foreign interloper. Such approach not only ignores
current reality that many companies build their products directly on
major copylefted projects (e.g., Android vendor's use of the kernel
named Linux), but also creates a culture of fear among developers,
leading them into a downward spiral of further hiding their necessary
reliance on copylefted software in the company's products.

因此，毫不奇怪，GPL 软件的营利采用者经常错误地认为所有版权所有者都在寻求版税。 因此，企业通过将著佐权代码的“片段”合并到他们自己的专有计算机程序中，关注所谓的“意外”（通常是个别程序员在无人监督的活动的结果）侵犯版权的风险。 因此，“合规行业”的旗舰产品专注于旨在检测意外夹杂物的“代码扫描”服务。 这种努力集中在专有软件开发上，并将自由软件视为外国闯入者。 这种做法不仅忽视了当前许多公司直接在主要的著佐权项目上构建他们的产品的现实（例如，Android 供应商使用名为 Linux 的内核），而且在开发人员中创造了一种恐惧文化，导致他们陷入进一步隐藏的恶性循环 他们必须依赖公司产品中的著佐权软件。

Fortunately, COGEOs regard GPL compliance failures as an opportunity
to improve compliance. Every compliance failure downstream represents
a loss of rights by their users. The COGEOs are the guardian of its
users' and developers' rights. Their activity seeks to restore those
rights, and to protect the project's contributors' intentions in the
making of their software.

幸运的是，COGEO 将 GPL 合规失败视为提高合规性的机会。 下游的每一次合规性失败都代表其用户失去了权利。 COGEO 是其用户和开发者权利的守护者。 他们的活动旨在恢复这些权利，并保护项目贡献者在制作软件时的意图。
